As a Member of the Board of Directors for the Tahoe Rim Trail  Association (a   165+ mile trail, consisting of eight segments that  encircle Lake Tahoe), I am   frequently consulted for advice on riding  the Trail by horseback. Having only   hiked the entire Rim Trail by  foot, I have made it my mission to ride it and   have chosen to do it on  my Kentucky Mountain Spotted Saddle Horse, F&amp;R's   Pony Girl. My  girl Pony and I began this project last year and have now   completed  all but two of the segments.

<a href="//cavallo.local/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/LAKETAHOE.jpg"></a>The  longest segment of the Tahoe Rim Trail is a 33-mile stretch that   runs  from the Echo Lakes to Barker Pass, and it is by far the rockiest  segment   of the eight. Pony and I completed this segment last year in 2  ½ days. We   started out this 33-mile segment in a pair of two-year old  Cavallo boots. My   friends, well . . . they rode that segment in newer  Easyboots, which ended up   not being so easy. While my friends had  difficulties getting their boots on   their horses, Pony and I stood and  patiently waited. While my friends had   difficulties getting their  boots to stay on their horses and had to stop to put   them back on,  Pony and I would take a break and patiently wait. When my friends   had  to tighten wires and replace lost screws, Pony and I waited. Pony and I    walked right through piles and miles of rocks, lakes, streams, boggy  meadows,   mud and some pretty rugged terrain and never missed a step  (or a boot for that   matter).

Pony and I have now just finished up another season of riding  in those exact   same boots (for a total of four years), and I know we  are gonna just keep on   going. With only two more segments to complete  the Rim Trail, Pony and I will   not only have made then entire 165+  miles in just one set of (used) Cavallo   boots, but we will have ridden  lots and lots of other trail miles in those same   boots. Pony and I  want to thank Cavallo for making such a reliable, easy-to-use   and  enduring product.

Deby O'Gorman, USA